let's bring in Maran bashara alzer's a
senior political analyst he's joining us
today via Skype from Paris Maran I'm
wondering whether the debate performance
and and everything we've seen
subsequently from Biden is eclipsing the
issue of Gaza in Michigan but I mean
none of it is good news for
Biden look generally speaking as I wrote
uh on our website
al.net uh back in uh was it. back last
August Last Summer
age is going to be a defining act uh
factor in this election there's
absolutely no doubt about that and a lot
of these other important issues
including the economy apparently is
going to come second and because the age
is already playing uh such an important
role four months before uh the November
elections I think that's really putting
a lot of burden on Biden and really
undercutting or diminishing uh his
ability to influence events including in
the Middle East including the question
of for example of a ceasefire in Gaza
and so on I want to come back to the
ceasefire question in just a moment B
but but just sticking with what's
happening in Michigan because we do
expect Biden there in in just a few
hours the governor Gretchen whitner's
name has been very high on the list of
Biden Alternatives I see she is saying
though that she won't run she's sticking
by Biden but she did say very
revealingly after that debate that she
thinks that he's entirely lost Michigan
is there do you think any coming back
for the Democrats and for Biden
especially given feeling on Gaza now
too you know these are
incredibly dramatic moments dramatic
times uh for the question of America and
the Middle East and the question of
Elections and why do I say incredibly
dramatic you know we Define drama uh
it's a human choice between two
irreconcilable Goods or between two EV
evil for the Arab Americans who think of
Middle East and Israel Palestine and so
on as a driver for their vote this is a
choice between two evils they think of
both Biden and Trump are horrifically
bad for the Palestinians for democracy
in the Middle East for freedom in the
Middle East for justice in Palestine and
so on so forth for the
pro-israel uh voices in the United
States for the Pro occupation voices in
the United States this is a question of
twoo irreconcilable goods for them Trump
is great and Biden is absolutely great
whom to choose for the Palestinians the
difficulty is choose between bad and
worst for the pro- Israelis in the
United States it's that choose between
two irreconcilable Goods that are
complete opposite Trump or B we don't
know and it's really difficult to answer
for for example Arab Americans in
Michigan
what should they do next really these
are these are personal choices in the
end of the day so as you say the
perceptions of of who might take office
are playing into ceasefire efforts as
well I mean there have been suggestions
that Netanyahu is waiting just waiting
for for a trump White House and and he's
wanting to drag out the war until then
how is the upheaval that we're now
seeing the political upheaval in the US
how's that playing into ceasefire talks
well you know there's absolutely no
doubt that Netanyahu is trying to run
the clock on Biden I am not as sure as
he is that Trump is going to be even
better uh than Biden I don't think in
recent American in history in the Middle
East there was a a more supportive
unconditionally of Israel than Biden the
way he supported Israel's genocide the
past 8 months n months is really
unprecedented so when Trump comes it if
he ever comes and becomes president I am
not really sure he he's still hurt by
nany remember he used the fword against
Netanyahu he thought he was betrayed by
Netanyahu and he is in the end of the
day not a Zionist per se he's a
transactional president who really
thinks that many American Jews are
betraying him even though he is more
favorable to Israel than the Democrats
and so on so forth so there is that
netan trying to run the CL the clock on
Biden because there is diplomatic
pressure but in the end of the day I
think for again for many uh Arab
Americans for many progressives and
others in the United States the question
is not just about who's worse on the
question of Palestine there's also many
other important questions about Justice
freedom and human rights that face the
United States and the next president
that are just as important for many
Americans come November Al ja's senior
political analyst M Bashar there
speaking to us today from Paris thank
you m always great your
thoughts make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz